README.md, before:

# Playwright E2E Testing Project

This repository contains end-to-end tests for an e-commerce application using Playwright. The tests are designed to validate critical user journeys including login, product browsing, and shopping cart functionality.

## Tech Stack

- **Testing Framework**: [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) - A browser automation library for E2E testing
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Pattern**: Page Object Model (POM)
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, SonarQube
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions

## Project Structure

The project follows the Page Object Model (POM) pattern for better test organization and maintenance:

```
playwright-e2e-tests/
├── fixtures/           # Custom Playwright test fixtures
├── pages/              # Page Object Models
├── testData/           # Test data in JSON format
├── tests/              # Test specifications
├── playwright.config.ts # Playwright configuration
└── ...
```

### Key Components

- **Page Objects**: Encapsulates page-specific elements and actions
- **Fixtures**: Provides reusable setup for tests (cookie handling, authentication)
- **Test Data**: Externalizes test data for better maintainability

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or newer)
- npm

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/playwright-e2e-tests.git
   cd playwright-e2e-tests
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Install Playwright browsers:
   ```bash
   npx playwright install
   ```

## Running Tests

### Environment Variables

For tests that require authentication:

```bash
# Create a local.env file with credentials (not committed to git)
USER_EMAIL=your-test-email@example.com
USER_PASSWORD=your-test-password
```

### Running All Tests

```bash
# Run all tests in chromium browser
npm test

# Or run with specific browser
npx playwright test --project=chromium
```

### Running Specific Tests

```bash
# Run login tests
npx playwright test login.spec.ts

# Run shopping cart tests
npx playwright test addToCart.spec.ts
```

### Running in UI Mode

```bash
npx playwright test --ui
```

## CI/CD Integration

The project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration:

- **PR Validation**: Automatically runs tests on pull requests
- **Main Branch Protection**: Ensures quality through required status checks
- **SonarQube Analysis**: Performs code quality scanning on every PR

### GitHub Workflows

- `.github/workflows/pr-validation.yml`: Validates PRs with test execution and code quality checks
- `.github/workflows/main.yml`: Runs on merge to main branch

## Code Quality

### ESLint Integration

ESLint is configured to enforce code style and catch potential issues:

```bash
# Run ESLint check
npm run lint

# Fix auto-fixable issues
npm run lint:fix
```

The project follows modern TypeScript and Playwright best practices with rules configured in `eslint.config.mjs`.

### SonarQube Integration

SonarQube analyzes the codebase for:

- Code smells
- Bugs
- Vulnerabilities
- Test coverage
- Duplication

Configuration is in `sonar-project.properties` file. The SonarQube dashboard provides detailed reports on each scan.

## Test Coverage

### Login Functionality
- User login with valid credentials
- Login attempts with invalid credentials
- Account lockout after multiple failed attempts
- User logout

### Shopping Cart Functionality
- Adding products to cart
- Verifying cart counts and totals
- Mini cart interactions

### Session Management
- Cookie consent handling
- Authentication state persistence

## Contributing

1. Create a feature branch from `main`
2. Make your changes
3. Run tests locally
4. Push changes and create a pull request
5. Ensure all CI checks pass

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: enhance README with Claude 3.7 Sonnet and Copilot code review info

README.md, after:

# Playwright E2E Testing Project

This repository contains end-to-end tests for an e-commerce application using Playwright. The tests are designed to validate critical user journeys including login, product browsing, and shopping cart functionality.

## Tech Stack

- **Testing Framework**: [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) - A browser automation library for E2E testing
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Pattern**: Page Object Model (POM)
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, SonarQube
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
- **AI Assistance**: [Claude 3.7 Sonnet](https://www.anthropic.com/claude) - Advanced LLM for coding used to develop and optimize tests

## Project Structure

The project follows the Page Object Model (POM) pattern for better test organization and maintenance:

```
playwright-e2e-tests/
├── fixtures/           # Custom Playwright test fixtures
├── pages/              # Page Object Models
├── testData/           # Test data in JSON format
├── tests/              # Test specifications
├── playwright.config.ts # Playwright configuration
└── ...
```

### Key Components

- **Page Objects**: Encapsulates page-specific elements and actions
- **Fixtures**: Provides reusable setup for tests (cookie handling, authentication)
- **Test Data**: Externalizes test data for better maintainability

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or newer)
- npm

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/playwright-e2e-tests.git
   cd playwright-e2e-tests
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Install Playwright browsers:
   ```bash
   npx playwright install
   ```

## Running Tests

### Environment Variables

For tests that require authentication:

```bash
# Create a local.env file with credentials (not committed to git)
USER_EMAIL=your-test-email@example.com
USER_PASSWORD=your-test-password
```

### Running All Tests

```bash
# Run all tests in firefox browser
npm test

# Or run with specific browser
npx playwright test --project=firefox
```

### Running Specific Tests

```bash
# Run login tests
npx playwright test login.spec.ts

# Run shopping cart tests
npx playwright test addToCart.spec.ts
```

### Running in UI Mode

```bash
npx playwright test --ui
```

## CI/CD Integration

The project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration:

- **PR Validation**: Automatically runs tests on pull requests
- **Main Branch Protection**: Ensures quality through required status checks
- **SonarQube Analysis**: Performs code quality scanning on every PR

### GitHub Workflows

- `.github/workflows/pr-validation.yml`: Validates PRs with test execution and code quality checks
- `.github/workflows/main.yml`: Runs on merge to main branch

## Code Quality

### ESLint Integration

ESLint is configured to enforce code style and catch potential issues:

```bash
# Run ESLint check
npm run lint

# Fix auto-fixable issues
npm run lint:fix
```

The project follows modern TypeScript and Playwright best practices with rules configured in `eslint.config.mjs`.

### SonarQube Integration

SonarQube analyzes the codebase for:

- Code smells
- Bugs
- Vulnerabilities
- Test coverage
- Duplication

Configuration is in `sonar-project.properties` file. The SonarQube dashboard provides detailed reports on each scan.

### GitHub Copilot Code Review

GitHub Copilot is configured to automatically review pull requests to the main branch:

- Identifies potential bugs and security issues
- Suggests code quality improvements
- Provides feedback on test coverage
- Helps maintain consistent coding patterns across the codebase

This automated AI-powered review complements human reviews and other static analysis tools.

## Test Coverage

### Login Functionality
- **Given** user with invalid credentials, **when** they attempt to login, **then** error message is displayed
- **Given** user repeatedly using same invalid credentials, **when** login attempts exceed limit (20), **then** account should be temporarily locked
- **Given** user with valid credentials, **when** they login, **then** they should be redirected to account page
- **Given** user is logged in, **when** using direct selector logout sequence, **then** logout confirmation should be displayed

### Shopping Cart Functionality
- **Given** user views a product, **when** adding to cart, **then** item should appear on mini cart and count should increase
- **Given** user adds products to cart, **then** cart total should be updated correctly

### Session Management
- **Given** user visits the site, **when** cookie consent appears, **then** it can be automatically handled
- **Given** authenticated user has active session, **when** revisiting the site, **then** authentication state is preserved

## Contributing

1. Create a feature branch from `main`
2. Make your changes
3. Run tests locally
4. Push changes and create a pull request
5. Ensure all CI checks pass

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)
